Data Scientist Advanced Development Program

Location(s)
Charlotte, NC, US
.
Malvern, PA, US 
Work model
Hybrid 
Date posted
09/02/2025
 
Job requisition
168639
Share this role
Save this job
The Data Science Advanced Development Program offers participants the opportunity to contribute to strategic Vanguard data initiatives as part of three, 6-month rotations across divisions. The rotations will focus on developing key Data Science principles. Participants will perform deep dive diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive analytics to support data-driven business decision making.

Job description
Benefits and rewards
Core Responsibilities

Demonstrates the ability to successfully understand the objectives of each rotational assignment in the broader context of Vanguard, and exceed or achieve rotation objectives with accountability for all projects and assignments.
Leads or participates in discussions and projects pertaining to key business issues/opportunities. Manages projects from inception through implementation ensuring project deadlines are met. Defines project scope and requirements, establishes timeline, and ensures timely completion of deliverables. Communicates complex analytical findings and implications to business partners.
Builds business and data-specific acumen through each rotation. Develops understanding of Vanguard's data environment and uses broader data methodology, products and services, and the competitive environment to deliver and execute on high-impact projects .
Develops queries and performs extensive programming to access, transform, and prepare data for statistical modeling.
Interprets and analyzes data of high complexity to perform deep dive diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive analytics.
Identifies and diagnoses data inconsistencies and errors, documents data assumptions, and forages to fill data gaps.
Guides test design, research design, and model validation. Provides statistical consultation services. Serves as the analytics expert on cross functional teams for large strategic initiatives and contributes to the growth of the Vanguard analytic community.
Engages in continual personal and professional development with a demonstrated commitment to training and research and building tenacious personal learning habits.
Participates in special projects and performs other duties as assigned.
Qualifications

Undergraduate degree in Analytics, Applied Mathematics, Economics, Statistics or related analytical field of study or equivalent combination of training and experience.

Progress towards or completion of graduate degree in Analytics, Applied Mathematics, Economics, Statistics or related analytical field of study preferred or equivalent combination of training and experience required.

Minimum of three years related work experience.

Special Factors

Sponsorship

Vanguard is not offering visa sponsorship for this position.

About Vanguard

At Vanguard, we don't just have a mission—we're on a mission.

To work for the long-term financial wellbeing of our clients. To lead through product and services that transform our clients' lives. To learn and develop our skills as individuals and as a team. From Malvern to Melbourne, our mission drives us forward and inspires us to be our best.

How We Work

Vanguard has implemented a hybrid working model for the majority of our crew members, designed to capture the benefits of enhanced flexibility while enabling in-person learning, collaboration, and connection. We believe our mission-driven and highly collaborative culture is a critical enabler to support long-term client outcomes and enrich the employee experience.

